(SOMBER MUSIC PLAYING)
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
(SOMBER MUSIC CONTINUES)
GIRL: "I. who live
in the shelter
of the Most High.
"who abide
in the shadow
of the Almighty.
"will say to the Lord..."
(CONTINUES PRAYING INDISTINCTLY)
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
WOMAN: Annie.
Are you in there?
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Annie. honey.
can I come in?
(DOORKNOB RATTLING)
Sweetie?
Annie. open the door.
please?
(KNOCKING HARDER)
Annie. let me in.
(CONTINUES PRAYING)
Open the door. Annie.
(ANN WHIMPERS)
Annie.
(ANGRILY)
Let me in. Annie!
(BANGING ON DOOR)
Annie!
(AGGRESSIVELY)
Let me in! Let me in!
Annie.
let me in. Annie!
Let me in!
(DOOR CRASHES)
(ANN SCREAMS)
WOMAN 2: Your mother.
she was schizophrenic?
These sessions
are mandatory for
all staff. Sister Ann.
My mother struggled
with depression.
And. yes.
she was eventually
diagnosed with
schizophrenia.
But even as a child.
I knew it was...
more.
More?
I didn't have
a name for it.
Every night.
she would come
into my room...
Sometimes she was
my mother.
Beautiful.
Loving.
And sometimes
she wasn't.
(HUMMING)
She'd comb my hair.
(SHUDDERING)
She'd hum that song.
(HUMMING CONTINUES)
She'd hurt me.
And then she'd hold me
and cry and say
the voice inside her head
made her do it.
I'm so sorry. Ann.
Abuse at the hands of
someone you trust is...
My mother was incapable
of hurting me.
she loved me.
It was the thing
inside her.
She was possessed.
(ETHEREAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(SIGHS)
Ah. look who it is.
ANN: Morning. Steve.
STEVE: Good morning.
Thanks.
(BELL TOLLING)
FATHER QUINN:
You make a good point.
But no. we are not
more sinful today than
we were in the past.
The human heart
has never changed.
Sister Ann.
What has changed
is that there are
more possessions
reported today
than at any other time
in history.
We are losing a war
that has been raging
for centuries.
We must
hold the line.
fight for every soul.
DR. PETERS: During
the Spanish Inquisition.
the Catholic Church
was responsible for
the torture and death
of thousands
of so-called heretics.
Many were simply
those suffering from
psychotic. mood. neurotic
and personality disorders.
The very structure
you're sitting in
was built
in the late 18th century
in response
to a rise in the occult.
The clergy would drag
women suspected of
practicing dark arts
down to
the baptismal well to
free them of evil spirits.
Countless were drowned
in holy water
till eventually.
the practice was stopped.
ANN: Sorry. Doctor.
Are you denying that
there are legitimate
cases of possession?
I've been here
long enough
to have seen things
that I can't
account for.
But one thing I do know
is the mind is
incredibly powerful.
And it loves
to play tricks on us.
To distort
our reality.
Now. thankfully.
the Church's approach has
evolved over the centuries.
And that's where
psychiatrists like myself
come in.
The Vatican's new guidelines
require anyone
suspected of possession
to undergo in-depth physical
and psychological evaluations
before being approved
the Rite of Exorcism.
(DARK MUSIC PLAYING)
(BABY CRYING OVER SPEAKER)
(READER TRILLS)
(DOOR BEEPS)
How are we doing
today. Clark?
Anything we can
get you to eat?
Let's give
this applesauce
a go. huh?
Hey.
There we go.
(GULPS)
Oh. you like
the applesauce.
I'll have to
remember that.
(READER TRILLS)
DR. PETERS:
I've ordered
a full blood panel
as I do with
all of our
new patients.
She was brought in
for assessment
after having seizures.
muscle spasms.
incontinence
and hypersalivation.
Natalie's mother
believes that
she is being possessed
by some sort of
evil entity.
And I believe
that the test results
will prove otherwise.
(WHISPERS) She's not
as scary as she looks.
DR. PETERS:
She can hear you.
Gentlemen.
shall we?
PRIEST 1: Thank you.
PRIEST 2: Thanks. Sister.
ANN: You didn't
eat much.
Mmm.
I like your. uh...
dog?
It's a train.
That has a tail.
It's an abstract.
(SMACKS LIPS)
Well. then.
you're officially
a starving artist.
I don't know
why they don't
give you dessert.
Thanks.
(CHUCKLES)
What is it?
Oh. some sort of
nougaty goodness.
What's nougat?
I don't know.
(MUMBLES)
It's really good.
(IMITATES MUMBLE.
CHUCKLES)
You're my favorite
person here.
Well. uh...
Us girls.
we gotta stick together
in this place.
Yeah.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(RAIN PATTERING)
(WIND HOWLING)
(SHUDDERING)
(WHIMPERING SOFTLY)
(WHIMPERING)
(MUFFLED SCREAMS)
(SIGHS)
(UNEASY MUSIC PLAYING)
(DOOR RATTLES)
(BREATH TREMBLES)
(ETHEREAL MUSIC PLAYING)
ANN'S MOTHER:
(WHISPERING) Annie.
(BABY CRIES IN DISTANCE)
(BABY CONTINUES CRYING)
ANN'S MOTHER:
Annie. let go.
(SIGHS SOFTLY)
(GASPS)
Hey. Natalie.
Hi.
Are you feeling okay?
I don't like
that room.
How did you get out
of that room?
I wanted to find you.
Nougat is a family
of confections
made with sugar
and honey.
roasted nuts
and whipped egg whites.
I looked it up.
Did you know that
candies have families?
I do now.
Shall we head back
to your room?
Okay.
ANN'S MOTHER:
(WHISPERING) Annie.
(PENSIVE MUSIC PLAYING)
I'm here with you.
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS)
(EERIE FEMALE VOICE
SPEAKING BULGARIAN)
(EERIE VOICE
SNARLS. WHINES)
(EERIE VOICE RESUMES
SPEAKING BULGARIAN)
(SHOUTING AGGRESSIVELY
IN BULGARIAN)
(MAN ON VIDEO
SPEAKING BULGARIAN)
(WOMAN ON VIDEO SNARLS)
(MAN CONTINUES SPEAKING)
(WOMAN LAUGHS. MOANS)
(BOTH CONTINUE
SPEAKING BULGARIAN)
(WOMAN BABBLING MOCKINGLY)
(MAN CONTINUES SPEAKING)
(WOMAN CONTINUES BABBLING)
(WOMAN SPEAKING)
(WOMAN YELLING)
(MAN SPEAKING)
(WOMAN SPEAKS SOFTLY)
(REMOTE CLICKS)
(VIDEO STOPS)
Elena had entered
the terminal stage
of possession here.
She would tear
her own clothes.
lick her own urine.
eat coal.
In the terminal stage.
the possessed reaches
the extremity of physical
and spiritual corruption.
Deliverance
is still possible. but...
death is imminent.
Sadly for Elena.
death came first.
Demons
are Lucifer's
foot soldiers.
They know no fatigue.
no fear. no doubt.
When you enter the room
of the possessed.
you are walking
onto a battlefield.
The Devil will
try to distract you.
Sow doubt in God's word.
Always remember.
the word of God
is your most
powerful weapon.
But the Rite is not just
a series of prayers.
It's a dance.
We have to feel
the cadence of the battle.
Work with our partners.
Understand the correct
entry points for attack.
Regrettably. the priests
made fatal errors
in Elena's exorcism.
What would you
have done differently?
(PRIEST EXORCISING
IN BULGARIAN
ON EARPHONES)
(ELENA SCREAMING
IN BULGARIAN
ON EARPHONES)
(PRIEST AND ELENA
CONTINUE SPEAKING)
(TRACKPAD CLICKS)
(AUDIO REWINDS)
(AUDIO RESUMES)
(ELENA REPEATING PHRASE
IN BULGARIAN)
ANN: My mother
talked about hearing
that voice inside.
She said the voice
didn't really want her.
It wanted me.
Because I was one
of God's chosen soldiers.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(READER TRILLS)
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
Sister.
Hi.
I'm reviewing
some cases
and there seems
to be some gaps
in the directory.
The records
are entered directly
into the main archive.
There are
no gaps.
And what about
the terminal cases?
Those are classified.
FATHER QUINN:
You summoned me. Sister?
SISTER EUPHEMIA:
I understand that Sister Ann
has taken it upon herself
to attend
another one
of your classes.
I wouldn't
say "attend."
More like "infiltrate."
She's very light
on her feet.
The rules of the Church
are quite clear. Father.
Only male clergy
may be enrolled
in exorcism training.
For now.
You should be
grateful. child.
In years past.
even patient care
in exorcism school
was restricted
to priests.
Now here you stand.
But what does it matter
if I'll never be able
to perform an exorcism?
Is a nurse
of no benefit
to her patients
because she can't
perform surgery?
Female surgeons
were once unthinkable.
Somebody had to be
the first.
Yes. Well.
healing the flesh
is a very different
undertaking
than healing
the spirit.
As members
of the Catholic
community of women.
it is not our place
to free these souls
from their tormentors.
We are here
to comfort.
to pray.
and show mercy.
That is all.
You may return
to your duties now.
Yes. Sister.
Father.
She wants
to learn.
And I want to
protect her.
(SHOWTUNES MUSIC PLAYING
ON SPEAKER)
(HUMMING)
(HUMMING ANN'S
MOTHER'S SONG)
(CONTINUES HUMMING)
Clark. how do you
know that song?
(STOPS HUMMING)
We've been waiting
for you.
(FLESH SIZZLING)
(STATIC CRACKLES)
(ANN'S MOTHER HUMMING
ON SPEAKER)
Your mother
has a pretty voice.
(GASPING)
(CLARK HUMMING ALONG)
(DOOR SLAMS)
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLES)
(CONTINUES HUMMING)
(CLICKING)
Hello. can anybody
hear me?
(CHOKING)
(IN DEMONIC VOICE)
Let me in.
(SNARLING)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(HUMMING CONTINUES
ON SPEAKER)
(CLARK HUMMING ALONG)
ANN: No!
(LIGHTS CRACKLING)
(LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
(HUMMING CONTINUES
ON SPEAKER)
ANN: No!
(ANN PANTING)
(HUMMING STOPS)
(TABLET BEEPS)
CARDINAL MATTHEWS:
I've seen enough.
This demon appeared
to go after Sister Ann
without cause.
Provoked by her
mere presence.
For her own protection.
and that of
others here
at St. Michael's.
we should
send her back
to the convent.
Evil isn't confined
to the walls of
this institution.
I'd feel better
having her here.
I can work with her.
Keep an eye on her.
Work with her?
In what sense?
I'd like to teach her.
Your Eminence.
That's against
all precedent.
all doctrine.
FATHER QUINN:
Nothing formal.
Just enough to
protect herself
and others.
I'm not sure
of the exact nature
of it.
But this
relationship
she has...
it's personal.
But. Father.
we all have a personal
relationship with God.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Not with God. Sister.
With the Devil.
(DARK MUSIC PLAYING)
FATHER QUINN:
The citadel has fallen.
The walls
have crumbled.
Black smoke
blots out the sun.
Because. as some of you
may already know.
we have
a female student
in the class
as an observer.
Sister Ann will be
accompanying us
on our rounds
for the rest
of the term.
Now pay close attention.
The nuances of our craft
require active learning
to truly understand.
So. group one.
let's descend into
the mouth of hell.
shall we?
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(READER TRILLS)
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC CONTINUES)
(READER TRILLS)
FATHER QUINN:
Clear your minds of
all thoughts but prayer.
You must remain resolute
despite the distractions.
It can be the difference
between life and death
for both you...
and the afflicted.
The subject
is a recent admission.
Dr. Peters'
preliminary diagnosis
was idiopathic epilepsy.
The subject
was moved here
to observation
when she began
to exhibit behavior
that Dr. Peters
couldn't explain.
Natalie is
10 years old.
We have to act quickly
to halt any further
escalation.
I need two volunteers.
FATHER DANTE:
I'll go. Father.
FATHER QUINN:
Very well.
You will take
the lead.
Who would like to
assist Father Dante?
I will.
Father Raymond.
The armor of God.
Each of you
have performed
a simple exorcism
every time
you baptized a child.
Cleansing them
of their original sin.
That was baptism
by holy water.
This is baptism
by fire.
Remember.
the name "Lucifer"
derives from
the Latin term
"lucem ferre."
"Bringer of light."
The Devil will
shine his light
into the darkest.
deepest recesses
of your mind.
exposing your
innermost secrets.
Your deepest pain.
He will use this pain
to break into your soul.
(READER TRILLS)
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
FATHER QUINN: (ON SPEAKER)
You must look past the girl.
She is as much demon
as victim.
In Nomine Patris.
et Filii.
et Spiritus Sancti.
Amen.
(BONES CRACKING.
FLESH SQUELCHING)
FATHER DANTE:
Christ. have mercy.
Strike terror.
Lord. into the beast
now defiling this
innocent child.
Stretch out your
mighty hand. Lord.
And cast this demon
out of your servant.
Natalie Hope.
We cast you out.
♪ I can't hear you ♪
(BONES CRACK)
(WINCES)
No!
(FLESH SIZZLES)
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)
(GROWLING. HISSING)
Stay far from
this creature of God.
BOTH: For it is He
who commands you.
He who flung
you headlong...
(AUDIO DISTORTS)
(SWITCH CLANGS)
FATHER DANTE: No.
Oh. shit.
Father...
(SLURPING)
Pray. Pray together.
BOTH: For it is He
who commands you.
Oh. he who flung you headlong
from the heights of Heaven
into the depths
of Hell!
(SNARLING)
(BOTH BREATHING HEAVILY)
NATALIE: (WHISPERS)
Una chica.
(BREATH TREMBLES)
(SNARLING)
(BONES CRACK)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
FATHER QUINN:
Don't stop.
Commit to the words.
For it is He
who commands you.
He who flung you
headlong from the
heights of Heaven
into the depths
of Hell.
Into the depths
(WHIMPERING)
(DEMONIC GRUNTING.
SNARLING)
(FLESH SQUELCHING)
(NERVOUSLY)
It is He
who commands...
(GROWLING INHUMANLY)
(SNARLING)
(IN DISTORTED VOICE)
Let me in!
(GASPS)
(GLASS SQUEAKS)
(DOOR OPENS)
Lord. repel
this Devil's powers.
By the incarnation.
passion. resurrection.
and ascension of
our Lord Jesus Christ.
I command you
to depart
this child of God.
(INHUMAN SCREECH)
(BED CREAKS)
(SOFT GROWLING)
(SOFT GROWLING CONTINUES)
(YELPS. GRUNTS)
FATHER DANTE:
Father.
(BONES CRACKING)
Say something.
Father.
Natalie.
(HISSING)
Natalie. can you hear me?
(HISSING INHUMANLY)
(STRAINING)
Sister Ann.
don't deviate
from the scripture.
ANN: Natalie.
Natalie. I'm here.
I'm here with you.
(BREATH TREMBLING)
(SHUDDERING)
I'm scared.
Natalie. I'm here.
(SHUDDERS. GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
(STIFLED SCREAMING)
Go!
(GAGS)
Father.
Give place.
abominable creature.
Give way to Christ.
(CHOKING. SCREAMING)
You are a shield
about me.
my glory.
the lifter
of my head.
Sister. with me now.
BOTH: I cast you forth
into outer darkness
where everlasting ruin
awaits you.
(GURGLING)
In the name of
our Lord Jesus Christ.
I cast you out.
(GASPS)
(PRIESTS GRUNT)
(NATALIE WHEEZES)
(GASPING HEAVILY)
(COUGHING)
Hey.
(GASPING)
Hi. sweetie.
It's okay.
She's okay.
(PANTING)
I have to start wearing
adult diapers to class.
(ANN LAUGHS)
You and me
both.
To you.
Hey. who knows what
would've happened if you
hadn't stepped in there.
It's not a sin to take
a little victory lap. right?
No. I thought
I got through to her.
For...
a moment.
But...
FATHER DANTE:
Hey. you did.
And it weakened
the demon
'cause Natalie was
still in there somewhere.
I don't know.
If Father Quinn
hadn't stepped in...
You okay?
Uh. yeah.
I think this was
meant for me.
Why?
My baby sister.
Emilia.
She. uh...
She was raped.
She got pregnant.
ANN: I'm so sorry.
She. uh...
She lost the baby.
She's been afflicted
ever since.
(READER TRILLS)
(UNEASY MUSIC PLAYING)
(BUTTON CLICKS)
(TRILLING)
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
(SOFT THUDDING)
(GASPS SOFTLY)
(GASPS)
(BREATH TREMBLING)
(SIGHS)
(GASPS)
(BREATH TREMBLING)
(READER TRILLS)
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
(WHIMPERING)
NATALIE: Hi.
(GASPS)
How are you feeling?
(GROGGILY)
Kinda sleepy.
This isn't my room.
No.
This is a special room.
I had a bad dream.
I'm sorry.
Can you tell me what
you remember about it?
I was in a room.
It was kinda
like this room.
And...
there were people.
They were all yelling.
Were they yelling at you?
Couldn't understand
most of them.
I think they were talking
to someone else.
Who?
(SNIFFLES)
The voice.
Whose voice?
He tells me things.
Promises me things.
Sometimes...
he shows me things.
They're bad.
It's all right.
You can tell me.
You were there.
(LOW OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
But...
you weren't yelling.
Natalie?
ANN: Natalie wasn't
cleansed. was she?
We're not sure.
The demon may
have undertaken
temporary refuge.
Will the Rite be
administered again?
The girl
will remain in
observation.
If she escalates
further.
it may be beyond
our capacity
to deal with.
She'll be transferred
to the Vatican.
You mean
she might be
a terminal case?
I want to stay
with her. Father.
I've made
a connection.
That's exactly
the problem.
The exorcist
is a confessor
and an intercessor.
not a friend.
But what if
I can help her?
Terminal cases
are the most complex
and delicate we face.
They can only be
handled by the most
skilled exorcists.
If you want
to help her.
pray.
Your power
is in the spirit.
Not the flesh.
She may still make
a full recovery.
(PENSIVE MUSIC PLAYING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Sister. Cardinal Matthews
is requesting this urgently.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(DISTORTED SCREAMS)
MALE INTERVIEWER:
So. what happened
when the soldiers
came to your house
that day?
It was me
and my two
younger sisters.
They said
one of us could go.
I ran.
I didn't wait
for anything.
I just ran.
INTERVIEWER:
You ran away and...
and the soldiers
shot your sisters?
MILA: Yes.
INTERVIEWER:
Mila. tell me about
the voice that you heard.
I kept hearing
those shots.
The demon spoke to me
in the sound
of those gunshots.
He took control.
INTERVIEWER: Okay.
But then you
were cleansed.
right?
You received
the Rite of Exorcism.
And you were healed.
"Healed"?
(FLESH RIPPING)
(WINCING)
I kept cutting.
but the body
is still here.
INTERVIEWER:
You did that
to yourself?
I prayed for
God's forgiveness.
I prayed and I prayed.
but deep down I knew.
I didn't deserve
forgiveness.
My mother felt guilt
for what she had done.
I was alone with her.
ANN'S MOTHER: Annie?
Where are you?
(SHUDDERING)
(OBJECT THUDS)
(FLOORBOARD CREAKS)
(MUFFLED FOOTSTEPS)
Annie?
(FOOTSTEPS THUMPING)
(OBJECT THUDS)
(ANGRILY) Annie!
(OBJECT CLATTERS)
(DISHES CLATTERING)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(GASPS)
(COMB TEETH CLICKING)
(YOUNG ANN GRUNTS. SCREAMS)
(YOUNG ANN SCREAMS)
DR. PETERS:
What you're describing
is terrifying.
It's traumatic.
Memories like these
are so hard to face.
Your mother.
she eventually...
She took her own life.
DR. PETERS: And you felt
responsible for her death.
That's a common
trauma response. Ann.
For the victim
to feel shame.
And the only way
to disarm these memories
is to drag them
into the light.
Confront the trauma.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(PEOPLE SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
(READER TRILLS)
(TRILLS)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
WOMAN: What're you
doing down here?
What's going on
with Natalie?
They restricted
access.
Why?
No idea.
Maybe they're
transferring her.
(LOW OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
Father Dante.
ANN: Hi.
FATHER QUINN:
Right.
Father.
You can't let Natalie
be transferred.
I've seen the records.
The mortality rate
for terminal cases
is over 90%.
Our faith
does not reside
in statistics. Sister.
No. No. it doesn't.
But I don't think
that it resides strictly
in the word
of the Rite either.
No?
The Rite has
stood for millennia
as the received
word of God.
And you have notes?
Where did you read
these records anyway?
I know.
I broke the rules.
But there is a lonely.
frightened little girl
at the center of this.
You tread on
precarious ground
when you make
this fight personal.
But it is
personal. Father.
That is the point.
You said yourself
that exorcism
is about nuance.
And yet.
we have never
even considered it
from the victim's
perspective.
So what does
the demon want?
It wants to dehumanize
the possessed
and make them feel
unworthy of God's love.
Our goal should be to
connect with the possessed
and help them fight
for their own humanity.
Let them know
we see them.
not just the demon.
Is it not possible
that there are cases.
unique cases.
that the Rite
cannot account for?
What makes
these cases unique?
Cases where the victim's
shame and guilt
are so profound
that they invite
the demon in.
And they want to suffer.
They surrender control.
(SIGHS)
So where does
Natalie's shame
come from? Hmm?
She is
an innocent child.
(SOFTLY)
I don't know.
Lucifer was once
the most beautiful and
powerful angel in Heaven.
But he became prideful
and God cast him out.
That...
That's it. Sister.
I believe in you.
more than you can imagine.
But you
have to understand
the danger here.
If you shun the Church
to follow your own will.
you will find yourself
wandering in the darkness.
Alone.
Father.
I heard what you said.
ANN: They can't
let Natalie
be transferred.
She won't
come back.
I agree.
And we don't
have much time.
What do you mean?
So. what if there was a way
that you could prove to them
that you're right.
Your sister.
She's possessed. Ann.
I know she is.
And her episodes just
keep getting worse.
I tried to have her
admitted here. but...
it's complicated
for the Church.
Because of her baby.
She's devout.
Ann. you talk
about guilt.
She had to make
an impossible
decision.
And it's eating away
at her.
She let the demon in.
You want to attempt
an unauthorized exorcism?
Not alone.
Please. Ann.
(SIGHS)
My sister
doesn't have
much time left.
And I saw you
with Natalie.
You have a gift.
You connect
with the possessed.
You see past the demon
and into the person.
If you really believe
what you're saying...
Natalie is still possessed.
And she's still alive.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
(GASPS)
Hi. Mama.
Mi hijo.
(DOOR CREAKS)
FATHER DANTE:
My mother says she's been
asleep for three days.
(WHISPERS)
Are you ready?
Are you?
(LOW OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(INHALES DEEPLY. WHEEZES)
(RAGGED BREATHING)
(WINCING)
(GROANING CONVULSIVELY)
(SHUSHES)
(SHUDDERING)
(CONTINUES SHUDDERING)
(SHUDDERING STOPS)
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
Chiquita. this is...
This is Ann.
She's here
to help you. Okay?
Emilia.
Can you hear me?
(WHISPERING)
It won't stop.
The voice?
It has no power over you
that you don't give it.
Okay.
"Blessed is the one
whose transgressions
are forgiven.
whose sins
are covered."
"Blessed is the one
whose sin the Lord
does not count against them.
"and in whose spirit
is no deceit."
You know what it feels like
to have something growing
inside you.
Don't you. Sister?
(WHIRRING HEAVILY)
Yes.
At least
this bitch knew
(VOICE DISTORTING)
who the baby's
father was.
(CHUCKLING)
(WIND GUSTS)
(GASPS)
(BONES CRACK)
(GRUNTS)
(GRUNTING IN PAIN)
(SCREAMS)
(BREATHES RAPIDLY. SCREAMS)
Help me!
(SQUEALING IN PAIN)
Please! Please!
(SQUEALING)
(FLESH SQUELCHES)
(EMILIA GASPING)
(DISTORTED GRUNTING)
(CHUCKLES)
Emilia. listen to me.
Focus on the sound
of my voice.
DEMON: She can't hear you.
(GASPS)
Emilia. the demon
preys on
the most devout
because our guilt.
it is the deepest.
(SCREAMS)
Ann...
(MUFFLED GROWLING)
(EMILIA GASPING)
ANN: Open your eyes.
This flesh... This flesh
is yours. It is not his.
(GROANS)
You don't
have to hide
from it anymore.
I know you wanted
the baby to be gone.
(MUFFLED SQUELCHING)
You wanted it
to be over.
Like you did?
(SNIFFLES)
Yes.
Ann...
I know despair.
How shame gets in
and rips you open.
It's always there
and it just grows.
Ann.
(FLESH SQUELCHES)
Psalm 86:5.
"For you. O Lord.
are good and forgiving.
"abounding
in steadfast love
to all who call..."
He can never shut out
God's love for you.
Don't hide from it.
All of the pain.
Follow me
into the pain.
We'll go there together.
"For you. O Lord.
are good and forgiving..."
(CONTINUES INDISTINCTLY)
Confess to yourself
and you will be forgiven.
(EMILIA GASPING)
(MUFFLED DEMONIC GROAN)
(WHEEZES)
(EMILIA CRIES)
(BREATH SHAKING)
(WHIMPERS)
How did you do...
(CONTINUES CRYING)
It's over.
Emilia. you're free.
(CRYING CONTINUES)
You freed yourself.
That tattoo
above your wrist...
is that a gang thing?
It was. yeah.
I got pregnant
when I was 15.
Was too wasted
to remember
who the father was.
They kicked me out
of my foster home.
And by God's grace.
I found my way
to the shelter
run by the
Sisters of St. Mary.
And they
took me in.
Cared for me.
What about the baby?
(BABY COOING)
ANN: The sisters arranged
for her adoption.
I only held her
for a moment.
But I. uh...
(BABY CRIES)
I've carried her with me
ever since.
(BABY CONTINUES CRYING)
(CRYING)
I abandoned her.
And I pray that...
that God can forgive me.
"For you. O Lord.
are good...
"and forgiving."
(SIGHS)
Hey.
He already has.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(RAIN PATTERING)
(PENSIVE MUSIC PLAYING)
(GRUNTING SOFTLY)
(ANN'S MOTHER SOBS)
(COMB TEETH CLICKING)
(PENSIVE MUSIC CONTINUES)
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
(THUNDER CONTINUES RUMBLING)
(BREATHES DEEPLY)
(WINCING)
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
(GASPING)
(FAUCET RUNS)
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Cardinal Matthews
is calling for you.
Yes. Sister.
(SOMBER MUSIC PLAYING)
Your Eminence.
I'm afraid I have
some tragic news.
Father Dante's sister.
Emilia. took her own life
last night.
What?
Emilia's mother
reported to the parish
that you attempted
an exorcism on her.
Is this true?
I'm so sorry.
CARDINAL MATTHEWS:
Then it is true.
Yes. I thought that I...
You thought
you knew better
than a church
that has stood
for thousands
of years?
Of course not.
You overestimated
your competence
and stepped right
into the Devil's snare.
Please. It wasn't
Sister Ann's fault.
I was desperate.
You weren't remotely
prepared to take on
an exorcism like this.
Demons retreat
to avoid
further assault.
It was a deception.
Not a defeat.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
You've both
betrayed the trust
the Church put in you.
That I advocated for.
I think...
(BREATH TREMBLING)
I think it's best
if I return to my place
with the Sisters of St. Mary.
(SOMBER MUSIC CONTINUES)
(LEAVES RUSTLING)
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Come in.
Thank you
for seeing me.
(DOOR CLOSES)
(SIGHS) Well.
this is grim.
Although. apparently.
the abbess.
Benedetta Carlini.
spent the last 35 years
of her life in a 6-by-6 hole
in the ground.
On her dying day.
she said she never had
a moment's regret.
I didn't realize
you were so familiar
with the lexicon
of Catholic mystics.
I'm an academic.
I like to hear
both sides.
I heard about
what happened.
Father Dante's sister.
I really thought
I'd gotten through
to her.
I came...
to give you this.
ANN:
"Brain. mind. and body
in the healing of...
"trauma."
I know you're
a one book kinda gal.
but I thought
you might enjoy some
light exile reading.
(CHUCKLES SOFTLY)
Ann.
I've had patients that...
no matter
how hard I tried.
I couldn't save them.
You might be
relieved to know that
Natalie was released.
What?
She was cleared
after observation.
and she went home
with her mother
this morning.
(CHUCKLES)
(SNIFFLES)
(SIGHS IN RELIEF)
You're on a new path.
It's natural
to feel lost.
(SOFTLY) Keep going.
(DOOR CLOSES)
Father Dante.
Sister Ann.
What're you
doing here?
Something's happened
at the school.
Natalie.
Walk with me.
She suffered
a sudden relapse
and they
rushed her back.
(GRUNTING)
(SIRENS WAILING)
(BONES CRACK)
(MAN SCREAMS)
(EKG FLATLINING)
FATHER DANTE:
A priest and two
orderlies were killed.
I will pray for their souls
and for Natalie's deliverance.
She's a terminal case.
She'll be transferred
back to Rome.
No. we don't have
time for that.
She has hours left.
not days.
They moved her to
the catacombs beneath
the main building.
They still have
holding cells there.
Holding cells?
Part of
the original structure.
They have her
totally sealed away from
the rest of the academy.
I don't think
they're willing
to risk more lives
to attempt
another exorcism.
Why?
Why come
and tell me this?
Because she gave me this.
(SINISTER MUSIC PLAYING)
I got this
when I first arrived here
at St. Mary's.
And I wrapped it
around the wrist
of my little girl
the day I gave her away.
Father.
Natalie is
my daughter.
The demon
is using her
to get to me.
I can't let her
suffer for me.
I won't.
(CRICKETS CHIRPING)
(DARK MUSIC PLAYING)
(BABY CRYING)
Most glorious Prince
of the heavenly armies.
Michael the Archangel.
Defend us in battle
against
principalities
and powers.
Against the rulers
of darkness
in this world...
against the spirits
of wickedness...
in these high places.
May Thy mercy descend
upon us. Lord.
Amen.
(READER TRILLS)
(FOREBODING MUSIC PLAYING)
(WATER DRIPPING)
(FOREBODING MUSIC CONTINUES)
ANN: Is that
holy water?
FATHER DANTE: Yeah.
It's the baptismal well.
PRIESTS: ...spirits.
demonic forces.
satanic powers.
principalities.
along with...
(PRIESTS CONTINUE
READING INDISTINCTLY)
...air. water. fire...
Turn around.
Right now.
FATHER DANTE:
Raymond. move.
Are you insane?
She killed
your sister.
She did not.
Move.
NATALIE: Don't act
like a stranger.
You've got my invitation.
Natalie.
Let them leave.
(LIGHTS CRACKLE)
(ALL GASP)
(METAL CLANGS. CLATTERS)
(METAL CREAKS)
Ann.
(NATALIE HUMMING
ANN'S MOTHER'S SONG)
(SHUDDERING)
Natalie.
NATALIE:
♪ I can't hear you ♪
(DEMONIC SNARL)
(PRIEST GRUNTS)
(YELPS. GRUNTS)
(ALL SHUDDERING)
(GASPS. SCREAMS)
(ANN WHIMPERS)
(SCREAM FADES)
Raymond.
(DEMONIC SNARLING)
(WHIMPERS)
FATHER DANTE:
Raymond!
Raymond.
(DEMONIC SNARLING)
(CHAIN RATTLES)
(GASPING)
No.
(UNEASY MUSIC PLAYING)
(BOTH BREATHING SHAKILY)
Why did you
leave me. Mommy?
I was so scared
and alone
without you.
You're not Natalie.
I know who I'm talking to.
(FATHER DANTE
WHISPERING PRAYER)
Then be honest
for once.
Why did you
give her away?
I was 15.
No.
That's not it.
What happened
to your mother?
She sacrificed herself
to save you.
That's why
you couldn't be
a mother.
You couldn't
be responsible
for another life.
But I can now.
Ann. Ann!
You win.
I love you
so much. Mommy.
(DEMON SNARLS)
(GROANING)
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(PANTING) Natalie.
Ann!
(DISTORTED WHEEZING
AND GROANING)
Run.
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(BONES CRACKING)
(GROANS IN AGONY)
(GROANING)
(FATHER DANTE PANTING)
(DEMONIC SNARL)
(DISTORTED GROANING)
NATALIE:
What's happening?
Natalie.
I'm Father Dante.
We're gonna play a game
of hide-and-seek. Okay?
I need you to go through here.
Come on.
(WHEEZES)
(GROWLS)
Okay. Listen to me.
I need you to find
the very best hiding spot
that you can. okay? Go.
Go.
(PANTING)
(FOOTSTEPS THUMPING)
(FOOTSTEPS RUNNING)
(FOOTSTEPS STOP)
Come on.
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
Ann.
(CHAIN RATTLES)
(GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
Ann. I know
you're in there.
okay?
I need you
to listen to me.
okay?
Just let
Natalie go. please?
Let her go.
(GRUNTS)
(BONES CRACKING)
(HISSES)
(SLOW FOOTSTEPS)
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
(SOFT FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(SCREAMS)
(NATALIE GRUNTING)
(IN DEMONIC VOICE)
Don't be scared.
ANN'S MOTHER:
(WHISPERING) Annie.
Annie.
Let go. Annie.
(WHIMPERS)
Annie. let go.
I'm here with you.
ANN: My mother
never stopped fighting
the demon from within.
Right until the end.
(GRUNTING)
(BABY FUSSES)
(CRIES)
ANN'S MOTHER:
(WHISPERING) Let go.
(GASPING)
(SOBS)
(GRUNTS)
(WHIMPERS. GROANS)
I'm here with you.
(ECHOES)
(GRUNTING)
(ROARS)
(STRAINED ROAR)
(BONE CRACKS)
(SHRIEKS. GROANS)
Ann!
(ANN CONTINUES GROANING)
(GRUNTING)
Blessed Michael
the Archangel. (GRUNTING)
(WINCES)
(SOBBING)
(DEMONIC GROWL)
Defend us
in this hour of conflict.
(STRAINING)
(ROARS)
Be our safeguard.
(STRAINING)
Thrust Satan
down to hell.
(STRAINING)
(DEMONIC ROAR)
(FLESH SIZZLING)
(GROANING)
(BONES CRACKING)
(ANN SCREAMING)
(DEMONIC ROAR)
(HEART POUNDING)
FATHER QUINN:
Your power
is in the spirit.
Not the flesh.
(HEARTBEAT SLOWING)
DR. PETERS:
You're on
a new path.
Keep going.
You don't have to
hide from it anymore.
All of the pain.
ANN'S MOTHER: (WHISPERING)
Let go. Annie.
(WATER SIZZLING)
(DEMONIC ROAR)
(ROARING STOPS)
(LIGHTS CRACKLE)
Ann.
(GURGLING. COUGHING)
(SPITS)
(GASPS. COUGHING)
(CONTINUES COUGHING)
(FATHER DANTE PATTING)
(PANTING)
(BELL TOLLING)
(CLICKS BUTTON)
(BED WHIRRS)
(SOFT MUSIC PLAYING)
(CHUCKLES SOFTLY)
If you follow me.
we can finish up
the paperwork.
Of course.
Hi.
I know it doesn't
seem like it now.
but when
you are home
with your family
and your friends.
you'll forget
all about this place.
But I don't want
to forget about you.
Then don't.
(CHUCKLES)
Your train.
I will treasure this.
Thank you.
(SOBBING SOFTLY)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATION)
Without your intercession.
the enemy would've won
this battle.
You clearly have
an important role to play
in the Church. Sister Ann.
CARDINAL MATTHEWS:
We've discussed where your
talents might be best placed.
So. we are rewarding you
an academic research fellowship
at the Vatican.
A fellowship
in exorcism.
(GENTLE MUSIC PLAYING)
Thank you.
(CHUCKLES)
It's an
unprecedented honor.
FATHER QUINN:
We think you could make
a difference there. Sister.
Thank you...
for everything.
Mmm.
You know.
technically speaking.
you're not the first
female exorcist.
St. Catherine
of Siena?
(CHUCKLES)
Indeed.
She died in 1380.
Right.
So the first
in seven centuries.
I'll take it.
If I may give you
one last
word of advice?
Of course. Father.
FATHER QUINN:
Be careful.
Now that
you know the Devil.
the Devil knows you.
(ANN'S MOTHER'S SONG PLAYING)
WEATHERMAN ON RADIO:
The overnight low
near 47th.
Rain tapering off
tomorrow afternoon
followed by...
(CAR HORNS HONKING)
As for your weather today.
with the winds
out of the southeast
at 12 miles per hour.
it's currently
58 degrees.
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
DRIVER: (WHISPERS)
Annie.
(LOCK CLICKS)
(SHUDDERING)
(EERIE MUSIC PLAYING)
(ROARS)
(DRAMATIC DARK MUSIC PLAYING)